- Hello, my name is Dr. Chuck Easttom.
Welcome to my quantum computing class.
Let me start with a
little bit about myself.
First of all, I've been
obsessed with education.
I have three doctoral degrees
in cybersecurity, computer
science, and nanotechnology.
I also have three master's
degrees including education,
applied computer science,
and systems engineering.
I've written several books,
37 as of this recording,
and I'm an adjunct teaching
cryptography for Georgetown,
and quantum computing for Vanderbilt.
What's the goal of this course?
Well, obviously, quantum
computing is a huge topic,
that's why there are hundreds
of books on the topic.
Not all of it could be
covered in any single course,
but what I've found out in the
real world, in the industry,
there are lots of
people, technical people,
sometimes programmers, managers,
network administrators,
that want to get that
foundational, general understanding
of quantum computing.
That's what this course is for.
If you're seeking that general foundation,
this course will do it for you.
Now, if you want to go deeper,
this course will give you the basics
so that you can go deeper.
Furthermore, we don't really
assume any prior knowledge
on your part.
We're going to start with lesson one,
going over basic
mathematics you will need,
things like basic linear
algebra, complex numbers,
and related topics.
Then in lesson two,
we're going to talk
about the basic physics
behind quantum computing.
Lesson three will take us into
physical and logical qubits,
how they're done, how they're
manipulated, how they work.
Lesson four will take us
into circuits, algorithms,
things of that nature.
We'll look at four specific
quantum algorithms.
Lesson five, we're going to
talk about the relationship
between cryptography
and quantum computing.
Finally, in lesson six,
you're going to learn some
very basic quantum programming.
The idea is that when you
finished all six lessons,
you have that foundational
quantum computing knowledge,
which again, may be
sufficient for some of you,
and it may be just the
beginning for others.
Also understand that any topic
we cover in these six lessons
could obviously be covered in
deeper and broader fashion.
Our goal is to not make you
the world's leading expert
in quantum computing,
but to make you competent
so you understand
and you can at least ask good questions.
Let's get started.